the Israeli military is continuing its
offensive in southern Gaza despite calls
for the operation to be halted to
prevent the loss of more civilian lives
well Algeria has said that it would
draft a UN resolution calling for an end
to the killing the US has vetoed
previous resolutions and says it still
considers the Israeli campaign in Rafa
to fall short of what it deems a major
ground operation but it said that the
deaths on Tuesday of 21 more people in a
dis bled persons Camp were heartbreaking
Israel has denied firing on the area
well let's cross over live two Jerusalem
our correspondent there yoland Nell
joins us so yoland the White House
saying the US continues not to believe
that Israel has launched this what a a
fullscale invasion of Rafa in southern
Gaza despite that what does this mean
for the people already displaced there
where did they
go well that remains big question we've
continued to see people flee in the past
day of course heading north um along the
coastline um also to to Khan yunas um a
city that was previously um really
devastated uh by uh a fullscale uh
Israeli ground offensive there that was
seen as being a Hamas stronghold now
what we're hearing this morning is there
have been further Israeli air strikes in
Rafa um we've been hearing as well in in
the past day or so that um these have
been in the west of the city that's an
area where Palestinians had not been
told to evacuate from uh previously now
um we've also had Israeli Ground Forces
advancing into the center of Rafa and
along the Gaza Egypt border as well that
was important that assessment that came
from Washington last night really saying
that it still sees this as being a
limited operation not Crossing what it
has defined as its red lines um to which
would lead to uh US military aid vital
Aid uh to Israel uh being stopped um
they're saying that really they've not
seen at this stage um that Israel has
smashed into Rafa there's been hitting
multiple points um with lots of troops
on the ground but the US has said is
closely monitoring Sunday's deadly
strike um on that tent camp in the west
at tesan in which at least 45 uh
Palestinians were killed uh the Israeli
military had said that it used precise
bombs to go after two Hamas commanders
um in that area um the US saying that
those results the fire that broke out
and that was something that was tragic
we've been hearing from the Israeli
military that this initial assessment is
that there were um secondary explosions
at the size of the Munitions it used it
says could not have been responsible
suggesting that perhaps uh weapons held
by Palestinian armed groups in that area
um could have been to blame there is
this proposed un security Council
resolution that is now circulating uh
we're told put forward by Algeria
following the closed doors emergency
session uh that took place yesterday
they have said they would like to see um
an end to the killing in Rafa they
putting forward a proposal on that um
but of course we have had at the US
vetoing multiple uh resolutions at the
UN Security Council calling for
ceasefires in Gaza okay well yand as
always thank you very much for just
bringing us up to date of the situation
on the ground there Yan now live from
Jerusalem well as Yan was saying that
the Israeli military is continuing that
offensive in southern Gaza as my
colleague Lucy Williamson now
reports Rafa was once gaza's
Refuge the safest place in a dangerous
War today the city's West and Center was
emptying those still Sheltering here
fleeing again amid air strikes and
artillery
fire taking whatever they need to
survive whatever they can't leave
behind there's been no evacuation order
from Israel's Army and for many no sense
of where to
go I'm just walking in the street I
don't know where to go there's nowhere
safe where should we
go this is not alive this is not
aive they were packing up two in the
displacement camp at Tas suan to the
west of the city still scarred by fires
triggered in an Israeli air strike on
Sunday dozens dead survivors
spent there's more than one way to lose
a
life Israel says its operation in Rafa
is key to defeating Hamas and that
Sunday's strike on Hamas commanders in
the camp was carried out with precise
Munitions that would not by themselves
have caused so many deaths we're talking
about munition with 17 kilos of
explosive material this is the smallest
munition that our Jets can
use following this strike a large fire
ignited for reasons that are still being
investigated our munition alone could
not have ignited a fire of this
size while people fled today gaza's
Health Ministry said more than 20 were
killed in fresh air strikes to the West
over half of them
women as far beyond these borders three
European nations officially recognize a
Palestinian
State and gaza's last urban center
begins to fall under Israeli control
Lucy Williamson BBC News Jerusalem
and we we have a special section on our
website dedicated to the Israel Gaza War
for more detail and Analysis and
background as well